This manual is translated by f1r3fly and updated by Aquillion. 

This manual is designed to be referenced in-game.  As such, if you find <command> symbols such as brackets or other decorative symbols, please ignore them, as they are used by the game.

{} For Beginners

With the default key setup, you move your character via the numeric
keypad. To run, hold shift while moving.

When navigating menus, space bar approves choices while shift cancels.

There are three context menus: 'z' brings up the quick menu, 'x' brings
up the item menu, and 'c' brings up the character menu.  

Press the corresponding direction on the numeric keypad to select an
action in the quick menu.  You can cycle between tabs in the item and
character menus by pushing 7 or 9 on the numeric keypad.

To pick up an item, push 0 on the numeric keypad.  To target a creature
for ranged attacks or spells, press * on the numeric keypad.

{} For Advanced Players

Each action has been assigned a corresponding key (see the <emp1>Key List<def> for a
full list).  For example, you can eat by pressing the 'e' key.  

You can assign hotkeys for spells, skills and usable items. To do so,
highlight what you want to set a hotkey for and press 0-9 on the
keyboard.  You can add additional hotkeys by pressing CTRL then 0-9.  To
use the hotkey while playing, press 0-9 (or SHIFT and 0-9 for the hotkeys
you created with CTRL).

To force diagonal-only movement, hold the ALT key.

{} Character Creation

The choices you make during character creation influence several things. 
Your race, class, abilities, and the initial values of your skills
influence your starting gear.  Your rate of skill-growth is also
determined by your initial skill value; the higher the initial skill
level, the faster you'll gain in that skill.

There are many types of skills, most of which you'll learn later on. 
Skills learned outside of character creation will have a growth rate much
slower than those picked in character creation.  This doesn't mean that
you can't pick a fighter class and be skilled with magic--while it's more
efficient to start out as a mage if you want to cast spells, with
practice, even a fighter can become a skilled caster.

Gender and character name have no influence on character statistics.

The growth-rate of your <emp1>abilities<def> is not affected by your statistics, so
trying to max out your stats at character creation is not necessary
(though it may make overcoming the early parts of the game a bit easier).

{} Abilities

<emp1>STR<def>: Strength influences your maximum HP, bonus to close-combat damage,
and the amount of weight you can carry.
<emp1>CON<def>: Constitution influences your maximum HP, stamina, and the amount of
weight you can carry.
<emp1>DEX<def>: Dexterity influences your chances to hit an enemy and provides a
bonus to damage reduction.
<emp1>PER<def>: Perception influences your ability to evade attacks, bonus to ranged
damage, and chance to land a critical hit.
<emp1>LER<def>: Learning influences your maximum MP and your rate of skill growth.
<emp1>WIL<def>: Willpower influences your maximum MP, HP, and stamina.
<emp1>MAG<def>: Magic influences your maximum MP.
<emp1>CHR<def>: Charm influences the way NPCs react to your character.

In addition, the above abilities have influences on skills and spells as
well as events.  The corresponding ability for a spell or skill can be
found to the left of its name in the form of its symbol. (For example,
most weapon skills have a pair of crossed swords to the left of them).

There are also abilities such as <emp1>Life<def>, <emp1>Mana<def>, <emp1>Speed<def>, <emp1>Luck<def>, and <emp1>Stamina<def>,
but these do not grow like the above stats do.

{} Skills

Your character's skill ranks will increase through usage, training, and
the spending of bonus points.

Some skills consume Stamina Points (SP) when used.  The loss of SP
results in increased fatigue, reduced speed, and an increased chance of
skill failure.  Resting recovers SP.  SP is not listed on the character
screen.  

There are some skills that require items to use.  For example,
performance requires an instrument, cooking requires cooking equipment
and something to cook, and fishing requires a fishing rod.

There are items that give skill bonuses.  Items will say this in their
description, and have a [*] symbol next to them.  For every * listed, the
skill will be increased by 1-5.

{} Skill Gain

When a skill is used, your experience value for that skill is increased. 
When it reaches a certain amount, the skill levels up.  The amount that
the skill increases is dependent upon your skill's growth-rate.  This
allows skills to raise through repeated use; the skill's related
attribute can raise through repeated use as well.
  
Additionally, when you level up, you will gain HP and bonus points; the
amount of bonus points you gain is dependent upon your learning
attribute.  These can be spent to increase your skills.  

When navigating the character menu, you'll see a percentage next to your
skill rank.  This is the speed with which the skill will increase through
use.  For instance, a skill with (200%) will increase twice as fast as a
skill which would rise at the normal rate (100%).  Your skill and
attribute growth rates are determined during character creation.

When your skill value rises, your skill's rate of growth will decrease. 
You can increase it with certain herbs and training at training camps.

The maximum skill value is 2000.


{} Learning Skills

To learn new skills, speak to any city's trainer.  They require platinum
coins in exchange for teaching you new skills or enhancing the ones you
already know.

The amount of platinum coins required varies, depending on the skill and
the rating of the skill you want to enhance.

{} Magic

In order to use magic, you must first learn spells from magical
spellbooks.  

Success in learning a spell is determined by the spell's power along with
your character's <emp1>Learning<def> and <emp1>Magic<def> abilities.  You can attempt to learn
a spell with low ability scores, but unfortunate accidents may occur.

When you successfully finish reading a spellbook, your stock of magic in
that spell increases.  Every time you cast a spell, the stock decreases
by the amount of mana required to cast it.  For example, a caster with 5
stock left in a spell that costs 5 mana can only cast the spell once, as
casting the spell will deplete the caster's magical stock.  He will have
to re-read the book to get more stock in the spell.

Your magic skill can increase by casting spells, but you will always have
to re-read your spellbooks to recover magic stocks. (???)

{} Resistance

Your resistance is how well you can resist a certain type of attack. If
you are hit by a damage type which you are resistant to, the damage will
be dramatically reduced.  It also helps in resisting status effects; for
instance, resistance to darkness reduces your chance of being blinded. 
Resistance to nerve paralysis reduces your chance of being paralyzed, and
so on.  If you are highly resistant to magic, it will take a more
powerful curse to curse you.

Your resistances are primarily raised by equipment, but there are feats
that raise them as well.

	
{} Feats & Mutations

While you are adventuring, there may be times when your character
changes--for good or ill.  Useful changes come in the form of feats while
harmful changes may come in the form of mutations.  

If it is not a special mutation, it can be cured--a typical cure is a
medicine of cure mutation.  

If you acquire a feat, then it is permanent.  You can gain feats during
character creation and after leveling up.


{} Curses & Blessings

Both items and creatures can be cursed or blessed.

For items, a blessing will give a +1 bonus to a weapon's damage and a +2
to PV if the item is a piece of protective gear. Cursed items give
various bad effects.  Curses can be lifted through the use of a remove
curse scroll.

For creatures, blessings and curses last over a fixed period of time. 
Curses may lower defensive power or hinder casting, for example.  A
blessing can do the exact opposite, providing strength or increasing the
recovery of MP.  

While blessed or cursed, an icon can be found at the bottom right of the
screen.  The number on the icon indicates how many moves the curse or
blessing will last.

{} Abnormal States

While adventuring you will come across many abnormal states.

When you suffer an abnormal state, you will see an icon at the bottom
left corner of the screen which will stay until the abnormal state is
gone--its duration is unknown.

Below are some typical abnormal states:

Poison: You will receive damage every turn.
Confusion: You will suffer from unstable movement and spellcasting will
be more difficult.
Blind: Your sight will become extremely narrow.
Drunk: Similar to confusion, but you will be more vulnerable to enemy
attack.

Many abnormal states can be cured through the use of magic or potions.


{} Weapons & Armor (1)

The numerical value is displayed at the end of a weapon or piece of
armor's name.

For an iron gauntlet (1,2) [3,4], the (1,2) refers to the respective
to-hit and damage bonus, while the [3,4] refers to the DV and PV bonus
gained while wearing it.  For more information, see the help section '<emp1>DV
& PV<def>.'

For an iron sword (3d4+5) (6), the 3d4 stands for three four-sided dice,
12 being the maximum basic-damage of this weapon.  The +5 is a damage
bonus.  The (6) is a to-hit bonus.  These bonuses are applied only when
attacking with the weapon.

{} Weapons & Armor (2)

When a weapon or piece of defensive gear is strengthened, a +1, +2, or
more can be found at the end of their name.

For weapons, whenever the numerical value increases by one, they receive
a +1 damage bonus.

Blessed weapons receive a +1 damage bonus.

For armor, when the numerical value is increased by one, the PV is raised
by 2.

Blessed armor receives a +2 PV bonus.

There also exists equipment that will increase abilities and/or raise
resistances.  You can verify this by examining these items with the 'X'
key.

Weapons with a penetration percentage ignore that much of the enemy's
armor; for instance, 60% penetration ignores 60% of the enemy's armor.


{} Fighting Styles

Shield Fighter:
When using a shield, you can only use one weapon, but you gain a bonus to
your PV depending on your skill with a shield.

Two-handed Weapon Fighter:
When wielding a weapon with two hands, your to-hit bonus and damage bonus
increase slightly.  If the weapon is designed for two-handed use and you
are skilled with two-handed weapons, your to-hit and damage bonuses will
increase even more.

Dual-weapon Fighter:
When wielding two weapons, you will be more effective when the heavier
weapon is equipped in your main hand (above) and the lighter in your off
hand.  You will receive a to-hit penalty based on the weight of the
weapons and your two-weapons skill.

{} Ranged Weapons

The effective range for each ranged weapon differs based on its type. 
Most of the time, the farther away your target is, the harder it is to
hit them and the less damage you will do.  The maximum range and damage
based on range is given below.
Arms Covered 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10
------------------------------------------
  Short Bow  07-10-10-08-06-04
   Long Bow  05-09-10-09-08-08-07-06-05-04
   Crossbow  08-10-09-08-07-06-05-04
   Throwing  06-10-07-04
      Rifle  10-09-07-05-03
    Shotgun  10-06-03
Machine Gun  08-10-10-09-08-07-04
 Photon Gun  10-10-10-10-10-10-10-5
------------------------------------------
For instance, when your distance is 1 -- the enemy is right next to you
-- and you fire a longbow, the weapon's distance modifier is 05, or 50%.
At a distance of three tiles, your damage modifier is 10, or 100% of
your basic damage.  For best attack power with the longbow, you must
keep your distance, which you can verify with the look ('l') command.



{} DV, PV & More

DV(defense value): As this increases, your chance to evade is raised.  It
influences your evasion, which can be found on your character sheet.

PV(protection value): As this increases, the damage you receive
decreases.  It influences your protection percentage, which can be found
on your character sheet.

Hit %: This is your to-hit percentage.  The higher this is, the more
likely you are to hit your target.  You will find this on your character
sheet to the right of your Melee1, Melee2, and Dist combat rolls.

Damage Roll:  This is the amount of damage your equipped weapons can do. 
It will be in the form of xdy, x being the number of dice, y being the
number of sides, e.g. 2d5 is two five-sided dice. You will find this on
your character sheet to the of Melee1, Melee2, and Dist.

Damage Magnification: This is the amount your damage is magnified by when
you damage a creature, for example "x2.0". Your damage magnification is
based off of your skill with the weapon and your abilities. This is
immediately after your damage rolls on your character sheet. 

{} Equipment Weight

There are three types of armor: Light, Medium, and Heavy.  

When equipped, the weight of these, along with the weight of your
equipped weapons, is factored into the total weight carried of your
character.

The type of armor worn has a direct result on the success ratio of
spellcasting.  The heavier the armor, the harder it is to successfully
cast a spell.  

Though your chances to cast while wearing heavy or medium armor can be
improved by having a good rating in the armor's related skills, the
success chance is still lower than it would be for one wearing light
armor.


{} Meals

Food is a necessity for survival in Elonia; you will periodically have to
eat during your adventure to avoid the adverse affects of hunger.

As you grow hungrier, your speed will decrease.  If you continue without
eating, your character will eventually starve to death.

Aside from filling your belly, food also affects your character's growth.
For example, meat helps increase physical abilities, while vegetables
help increase mental abilities.  Herbs, on the other hand, can increase
your degree of skill growth. (???)

If food is cooked, its positive effect can increase based on the level of
success with which it was cooked, as well as the food's freshness. (???)

You can also eat meat which comes from the creatures you kill.  The
effects in this case can be different depending on the type of monster's
meat you're eating.  Some can harm you, while others can give you
tolerances or other useful effects.

If you have a cart with food inside of it, your character will eat it
whenever they become hungry while traveling the world map.

{} Gods & Faith

During your adventure, you may find a god's altar.  While at the altar,
you can pray to the god it belongs to, raising your faith rating with
that deity.  Be careful, though-- if you pray to a different god, you'll
anger the god you started out worshipping.

Being on good terms with your god can also net you bonuses to your
abilities, skills, and special abilities.  The types of benefits you gain
from worship are different for each god.


{} Offerings & Prayer

If you worship a god, you can pray to it.  You can be granted a complete
recovery, but this requires a certain amount of <emp1>faith<def>.  

Faith is gained by giving offerings to your god--the amount you gain is
based on the type and value of the item.  The maximum amount of faith you
can have is determined by your faith skill, which can be raised by
frequent offerings and prayer.


{} Rest & Sleep

When you've lost HP and MP, it's possible to recover more quickly by
resting with the 'R' key.  It's important to note that time advances
automatically while resting.  Aside from regaining HP and MP, you will
recover from fatigue.

You will also be required to sleep; you will know when you're tired and
need to sleep when an icon at the bottom left of the screen appears.  As
your character becomes more and more tired, you will gradually gain more
fatigue and your natural regeneration of HP and MP will be penalized.

To sleep, use a sleeping bag or bed when 'sleepy' or 'needs sleep' is
displayed at the lower left corner of the screen.  You can also sleep by
resting when you need sleep.

While sleeping, you can gain bonuses based on your experience level. 
These bonuses can come in the form of attributes, skills, spells, and
more.  Take care to sleep in some form of bedding, however, as sleeping
without it will result in gaining only half the usual benefits. 

{} Weather

Rain, snow, and Ether Wind will hinder your movement as you travel in
Elona.  Rain will cause status effects which can slow you down, but your
rate of movement isn't affected.  When it snows, your movement speed is
three times slower--be careful when you travel during this weather, as
time will progress faster.

During an Ether Windstorm, several things happen.  The types of monsters
mutate due to the effects of the magical ether, and will be far more
powerful than they were before.  You, too, can mutate.  The effects are
instant and can be both a benefit and a detriment to your health.

To avoid the effects of the Ether Wind, you need to leave the outdoors
and find proper indoor shelter.  You can speak to an innkeeper to take
you to a <emp1>shelter<def> (or enter your own, if you possess one).  While in the
shelter, time will pass at a very high rate while you rest.  There is
ample food in every shelter, so you don't need to worry about your food
supply while resting in one.  

You can also find shelter in your home or a dungeon, but time will pass
at the normal rate, so it may be a while before the storm passes.

{} Ether Exposure

Prolonged exposure to ether wind will eventually give you an ether-based
disease.  Disease progression is divided into 20 stages.  As the disease
progresses, you will gain disease- or mutation-based traits found on the
feats tab of your character screen.  The progress of the disease may be
accelerated by some items and the attacks of some creatures.  These
effects can be cured by the use of magic.

{} Companions

When you first enter a town, you can choose your first companion.  You
can interact with your companion by pushing the 'i' key.  

The interaction menu allows you to talk to your companion--you can send
them back to town, abandon them, and more--and exchange items with them
as well.

If your companion is sent back to town or dies, you can speak to the
bartender in any city to bring them back for a fee.

Your campanions will grow just like you; they gain abilities and skills
through repetition, and the type of meals they eat affect them as well. 
Your companions won't die of starvation, but if you'd like to strengthen
your companion, it's a good idea to give them something to eat once in a
while.

{} Investment

If you can afford it, you can invest your coins in stores.  Doing so will
raise the store's level, which increases its inventory as well as the
quality of its goods.  Investing takes a lot of money--choose your
investments wisely.


{} Identification

During your travels you will come across many items that need to be
identified in order to reveal their hidden properties.  Item
identification can be done several ways.

You can gauge the item's quality by simply carrying it in your backpack
for a while until you get a hunch as to how good it is (this will be
displayed in the item's title as bad, good, great, etc.).

You can get your items identified by a town's wizard.  For a fee, the
wizard can <emp1>identify<def> single items or all of the unidentified items you're
carrying.  Depending on the item's power and the power of the wizard
examining it, a more in-depth examination may be required; this more
expensive form of identification can only be carried out on single items
and can be done by having the wizard <emp1>investigate<def> the item.

Items can also be identified through the use of magic.


{} Death

You die when your HP drops below 0.  When you die, some of your
belongings will drop to the ground and you will lose money.  For
characters level 5 and above, there is also a 25% chance that your skills
will decrease by <emp1>.5<def>.

Additionally, the majority of the items which you lose upon death will be
left at the exact spot of your death.  The probability of dropping your
equipment dying on the local map is lower.

Your score is dropped to 1/10th of what it was every time you die; unless
you're going for a high score, this isn't a big deal.

{} Owning Buildings

It is possible to own a multitude of buildings in Elona. To do this,
purchase a title deed at a store (you can find many for sale at the
embassy north of Palmia).  Once you have the deed, go to the world map
and read it while standing on the tile where you want the building
placed.

There are several types of buildings--you can tell what they are by the
name on the deed.  Storage buildings provide room to house many items,
while ranches can produce lots of food.  You can also place a store. 
These buildings are not required for victory, but can be a great help to
any adventurer when properly used.

To increase the productivity of item-producing buildings, you can assign
companions to work at them.  For example, a clerk is necessary to run a
store.  You can assign a companion to work at the store while you
continue your adventures.  Note that these 'working companions' still
count towards your total number of companions.
	
{} Auto-turn

The game skips your turns automatically when you cannot act personally
(eating, mining, sleeping, paralyzed, etc.).  These automatic turns speed
up time while they occur; where it may take many turns to sleep normally,
auto-turns increase the rate of time progression so that sleeping doesn't
take very long.


{} Spot Sampling

On both local and world maps, random sampling spots may be produced. 
When standing on a sampling spot, you can press 's' or spacebar to
collect <emp1>materials<def> from it.

Each type of sampling spot has a skill associated with it; familiarity
with the associated skill will increase the likelihood of successfully
extracting materials.

{} Materials & Crafting

There are many materials in Elona.  Materials found through searching,
random events, and sampling spots can be used for production and
mini-games.  Many production skills use materials to produce items.  

Materials cannot be bought or sold, and they have no weight.  To see what
materials you're carrying, push the 'M' key.

To produce items, use the tool associated with the production skill.  You
will then see a list of items to craft and their requirements below.  If
the materials at the bottom of the window are listed in blue, then you
have enough materials to craft the item.
	
{} The World Map

While traveling the world map, time passes over ten time faster than in
the local map.  Try and keep your routes as short as possible; cutting
corners can shave off hours and even days from long journeys.  The
shorter your travel time, the less food you need--if you run out, you'll
starve.

To enter the local map, press space bar.  You'll enter whatever tile
you're standing on in the world map: forests, caves, cities, etc.  You
can also perform spot sampling while on the world map.  Note that you may
have to enter the local map to use some items.

While you are traveling the world map, events will occur.  When ambushed
by enemies, the farther you are from town, the more powerful your enemies
will be.  If you travel on a highway, however, the enemy strength and
encounter ratio will decrease substantially.

{} Saved Maps

Depending on the type of local map (dungeon, city, random area, etc.) the
map area will either be constant, such as with towns or placed buildings,
or it will change every time you enter it, like the Puppy Cave.

You can leave items in your own personal buildings, but if you leave them
in towns, there's a good chance they'll be gone when you return. 
Artifacts which are left behind in town will disappear, but will be
generated again elsewhere.


{} Random Areas

Over time, certain areas such as forests, caves, forts, towers, and other
areas will randomly appear on the world map, the main dungeons randomly
generated.  At the bottom of these dungeons is a lord, a powerful enemy,
which will yield greater loot and medals when defeated.

Prior to entering a random area, you'll see an approximate danger level
next to its name.  This level is the estimated strength of the enemies
within on the entry-floor of the dungeon; they grow in strength as you
descend.  If the danger level is at or above your level, you might want
to consider coming back to the dungeon when you're stronger.
	
{} Requests

Requests are sub-quests which, upon completion, increase your reputation
value based on its degree of difficulty.  To accept a request, you can
either speak to the NPC issuing the request, or go to the town bulletin
board which lists the requests of all townspeople.

Each quest has a time limit--some a few hours, others a few weeks.  If
you do not solve the quest within that time, you will fail.  The time
limit is in parenthesis on the message board listing, while the NPC who
is giving the request will specify it.

The degree of difficulty is listed on the message board as well, in the
form of <emp1>colorized $<def>'s, ranging from a single green <emp1>$<def> to multiple red <emp1>$<def>'s.
 The higher the difficulty, the shorter the deadline, the harder the
task, and the greater the reward.  Be wary of accepting requests you're
not sure you can complete--you can suffer a large reputation decrease,
and may even become a criminal because of it!


{} Trade

Trade goods can be purchased from the trade good vendor in every pub. 
Each town has various prices depending on the supply and demand of the
item.  You can make a nice profit by selling many items of high demand to
a town that lacks them.  When you purchase trade goods (denoted by 'a
cargo of'), the cargo will go into your cart, which is designed to carry
trade goods only.  You won't be burdened by what's in your cart, but you
cannot use the items inside dungeons.  To view what's in your cart, look
at your character sheet screen.

{} Adventurers

There are many other adventurers who live and work in North Tyris.  You
can chat with them, as well as buy and sell items.

{} Fame & Karma

Fame represents how well-known you are across the lands of Elona as an
adventurer.  The higher your fame, the more difficult--and in turn, the
more rewarding--NPC requests will be.

Karma measures your conduct.  When you do good things, such as
accomplishing quests, returning wallets, etc. it will rise.  If you
perform negative acts, like stealing or failing to fulfill a request,
your karma will drop.  Be careful--if your carma drops too low, you will
become a criminal, and will be attacked by guards!

{} Rank & Salary

There are several types of ranks, such as your arena rank, your pet arena
rank, and your adventurer rank, all of which can be found in your
<emp1>journal<def>.  Specific actions can cause your ranks to rise, such as victory
in the arena as a contestant or a pet trainer, or conquering a dungeon.  

As you rank values increase, you will gain different titles.  As your
titles grow, so will your salary.

Every 1st and 15th of the month is payday; you will receive gold and
goods based on your rank and titles.  You will also receive a bill for
your property tax and various other services associated with owning land.
To pay your bill, take the invoice out of your salary box and bring it
to the embassy north of Palmia.  You can then open the tax box and put
the invoice within it.  Make sure you have enough gold in your inventory,
or else you won't be able to pay the bill.

{} Marriage & Genes

When your friendship with a companion reaches a certain degree, you can
get married.  Once married, you and your spouse can create a gene by
selecting the "let's make a gene" dialogue option after you reach a
sleepy state.  

Once you get a gene, you have the option to start over as your child,
allowing you to inherit your current character's equipment and some
bonuses. You can read more this in the '<emp1>transition<def>' section.

You can increase your friendship with a companion by having it do battle
alongside you, as well as giving it engagement rings and necklaces.

{} Transition

If you retain a gene, you can go to the title game menu and select
'Inherit,' enabling you to create a new character who starts with the
inherited posessions of your previous character, as well as some bonuses.
Inherited items require an heir-deed to be claimed.  You can retrieve
these items from the heir trunk in the starting house.

{} Wishes

In extremely rare cases you may encounter the chance to wish for
something.  You'll know this because a text-prompt will appear, asking
you what you want to wish for.  Type in whatever you want to acquire, the
name of an item, skill, or companion--make sure you're putting in the
exact name, or else you won't get anything!  

If you want a skill, type in 'skill' and th name of the skill.
(IE. 'skill tactics' or 'tactics skill')
When 'skill' is included, the game checks skill list first rather
than item list.

If you want a companion, just type in "companion" or "ally".

{} Troubleshooting

Q: Nothing happens when I use the numeric keypad.
A: This might happen when you hold down the shift key while using the
numeric keypad.  This often occurs when someone has the numlock on;
please turn off numlock when playing.

Q: What's with these items with a 0 amount?
A: The area is bugged--if you can identify the cause, please report it. 
To fix the 0-count, try dropping and picking up the item.

Q: I'm stuck in the showroom.
A: Press F12 to display the console window and type <emp1>exitroom<def>.

{} Tips (1)

You can <emp1>use<def> gashapon and casino machines, as well as many other objects. 
Try experimenting with the use function when you come across an
unfamiliar object.

As you learn in a tutorial, space key is a very useful key.

You must be on the shore in order to fish.  You also need bait; <emp1>mix<def> the
bait with your fishing rod.

If an enemy has an artifact equipped, it'll drop when you kill it.

If you use the <emp1>mix<def> command with a well, you'll eventually be able to fill
it up so that you can use it again.

You can sell the remains of creatures (skins, hearts, etc.) at shops for
a good price.

The success of your crafting / performing skills is influenced by the
quality and material of the tools used.


{} Tips (2)

Arena results will be separately saved in every city that has an arena.

Important NPCs, such as citizens and shopkeepers, revive after a fixed
period of time passes.

There is no suicide key.

The damage reduction of Opatos is 10% (seperate from the PV reduction.)

The resistance bonus from resistance-granting equipment stacks. But the
sum of the bonuses shown might seem strange, since a single [*] actually
ranges from 1 to 5. (ie. *(2)+**(5+2) = **(5+4) ). 

Bash fruit trees to reap their rewards.

A blessed item is always better, regardless of item type.
 
There's no point in owning multiple museums.

When you fail a delivery quest, you will lose a great deal of karma.


{} Tips (3)

The effects of weapons which raise your magic power do not overlap; the
higher one is applied.

Creating fires in the streets and forests is strictly prohibited.  In
case of a fire, you should flee the scene immediately and go back after
it rains.

Blankets can protect your equipment from certain ruinous-effects, but
when they do, there's a chance that they can be destroyed.

The force of a thrown potion depends on your strength and throwing skill.

You'll have a greater chance of success picking pockets between 7pm and
7am.  Characters that are asleep will not be aware of your actions.

It is possible to add random last words to lastwords.txt.

It is said that the Lana hotspring can heal even madnesss.

Body parts can't be obtained from human genes when using a gene machine.

{} Console

To get to the console, make sure you don't have any game windows open and
press F12.  The console is available primarily for the purpose of
debugging, particularly when you can't do anything in-game.  The main
commands are as follows:

<emp1>wizard<def>
This will enable Wizard Mode. Once your character enters Wizard Mode, no
going back.

<emp1>freemove<def>
On the world map, you can use this command to move anywhere.  However, if
you move into a building, a restart is required.

<emp1>exitroom<def>
This will remove you from the showroom.

<emp1>removequest<def>
Ends all the quests you have.

{} Credits

Special thanks to f1r3fly, for translating this manual.

Special thanks to Brad, for sending me lists of English corrections.

Special thanks to Aquillion, for updating f1r3fly's manual.

Special thanks to Sunstrike, for translating quest dialogs.

Special thanks to Lord Nightmare, for translating game text.

Special thanks to Schmidt, for translating in-game books.

Thanks to everyone else who has found and submitted bug reports in the
forums.

Most of Elona's graphics and sounds are freelance material. A very warm
thank you goes to the authors of all materials used.
